# CS-360

## Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
The main purpose of this application was to develop an app that manages an inventory system for a user. The app was to allow the user to log in, referencing a database table to verify the credentials that were entered. If the user has not used the app before or does not have credentials, the app has a create user button that will then populate their information to the database. The database was created through SQLite, housing tables for the functionality of logging in and one for the items that are contained in the inventory. There is also functionality that will prompt the user with a pop up asking if they would want SMS messaging alerts when the stock of an item drops to zero. 
The app was mostly meant to provide a lightweight option for inventory tracking, with the potential of future features that could hopefully rival some of the more widely known inventory apps. The main user need was to keep track of the items that the user adds, as well as adjusting stock, and being able to delete items.
## What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? 
There were three main screens within the app, one to handle logging in/creating an account, one to display the current inventory as well as handling the adding/deleting and adjusting of an items stock, and another screen that was more of a testing screen that would let me change the users SMS message preference, so I could verify it was working both ways. The settings page could ultimately be removed, but more features could be added that could allow the user to adjust different settings to their individual preference.
## How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
I tried to keep the UI designs simplistic while also having them be visually pleasing. The colors were consistent as to not be jarring when changing screens. Unfortunately some of the text can be slightly hard to read on the green background, but that is something that I would ensure is adjusted before the app were to be published.
## How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?
Through the course work we worked on the app through three seperate projects. The first project was making a mock of the UI of the app, which I chose to do a physical version by drawing a screen and coloring some aspects where appropriate. The second project was then making the actual UI within android studio, as well as some of the basic functionality of the app. Then the third project was the finalized app that was uploaded to this repository. When building the app, I mostly worked one feature at a time, ensuring that it was working, and then moving on to the next feature. On occasion adding these next features would cause errors or lead me to finding errors in the previous features, so I would have to go back and adjust these as bugs would pop up. I think these methods are very common within typical development pipelines, though they are sometimes done by multiple people, alleviating the overall workloads. The strategists and techniques will absolutely be remaining with me for any future endeavors.
## How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
I did frequent testing through putting myself into the role of the user and using the app as someone would, making sure to focus on features that I had just implemented, but still paying attention to other aspects of the app to make sure something else had decided to pop an error. If I would not have tested as much as I did there were a lot of bugs that I just would not have noticed. I specifically had a bug where I could only delete a few items, and then the app would crash due to some of the code logic I had implemented initially. If each time I tested the app through the emmulator I only deleted one or two items I would have never seen this bug but through the more thorough testing I was able to find this and other bugs. 
## Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?

## In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
